you are using an out of date browser.
it  may not display this or other websites correctly.
hello i'm looking at these ipads
and i'm wondering if they're still usable and if you or someone you know still uses it.
are they terribly slow already?
i already have a new macbook pro, i just want an ipad for watching youtubenetflix while lying on the bed and reading pdf files.
so i'm leaning towards the 2nd gen 12.9 and 10.5 ipad pros.
yes they're old
but i think they're perfect for my needs and right in the budget.
the cheap ipads 10.2 inch is a no go because of the one sided speakers and the bigger screen of the 10.5 and 12.9 are appreciated.
if i can buy a used one and have the battery replaced are they still a nice purchase?
thank you in advance and i hope you're having a great day!
i love my 10.5inch ipad pro, but if i were buying right now, i'd go with one of the newer 11inch models, primarily for the usbc connectivity.
performancewise, they're still decent for now.
caveat, don't know how long you'll keep it or what your performance expectations are for the near future.
mind, i don't really see much benefit to 120 hz when just viewing static pdf pages.
it does reduce pencil lag but even 60 hz ain't all that bad there.
battery's pretty shot on my pro 10.5, though.
it's around 100 for an official battery replacement and third party repairs sometimes use inferior batteries.
if i were you, i'd just allocate the funds for a battery towards getting a newer model.
agree with others mostly, if you can get a new battery and still be well under the price of an 11 pro, it's still a great ipad.
poor battery life after 4 years  usbcthunderbolt  larger screen went 12.9 were my motivating factors to upgrade, but aside from the battery my 10.5 still feels capable.
if you don't intend to connect external devices for file transfers, the usbcthunderbolt is not a big deal.
if you don't intend to connect external devices for file transfers, the usbcthunderbolt is not a big deal.
for me, the convenience of usbc means one fewer lightning cable and adapter to carry.
i can just use the cable and wall wart that came with my mba to charge them both.
that's true, but for now at least i would still need a lightning cable to charge my iphone
obviously, this is just my personal perspective i'm sharing, others' needs are surely different
i would stay away from the 10.5 pro.
a few months ago the touch screen stopped working on mine and made it completely unusable and forced me to buy a new ipad.
after doing research i learned that i was not the only person to experience this.
i don't normally carry a laptop unless i know i'd need it for work or some other esoteric stuff so usbc would actually require me to carry an additional wall wart and cable.
thank you all for the kind responses.
i don't mind the lightning cable since i still carry one for my phone and airpods pro
and i don't intend to use the external port other than to charge the device.
i don't plan to play in it too as i have a switch and the ps5 for those.
on the other hand, i agree that every device should already use usbc. sucks that i have to bring multiple cables for my phone, laptop and for the apple watch when travelling.
at least i just use one pd usbc charging brick.
the screen not working is kinda concerning though.
how long will i plan to keep it?
until it becomes too slow that it can't handle youtube and netflix as my macbook does all the heavy lifting for my job.
heavy lifting a.k.a.
just looking if it's still a good media device.
again, thank you everyone for taking the time to respond.
ya'll are awesome!
i just sold a 2nd gen
and it was still a very capable machine
and i was actively using it for professional illustration work.
its battery was just not what it used to be and the extra ram on the 2021 was hard to pass up, but i could have made the 2017 work for my needs for quite a while longer if i had gotten the battery replaced.
i strongly believe the 2nd gen ipad pro still has at least 2 years of ios updates left.
it has 4 gb ram.
i'm still using the 10.5inch and it's super capable.
if you can get a cheap used 10.5inch or 12.9inch, it would fit your needs very well.
but you also have the option of thirdparties.
but you also have the option of thirdparties.
i've heard its like 400600
when i investigated it for 3rd party prices were around 150175
but i have heard that through apple
it's much higher.
however, the ipad has to have no defects and battery below 80 based on their diags for apple to accept it for battery service.
they can't swap batteries instore
so they pretty much just do an ipad swap.
if there's any other defect, then it's 400600 out of warranty service fee depending on the ipad pro model.
an ipad service that is not related to the battery is hundreds of dollars.
they don't actually replace the batteries in ipads.
they give you a new probably refurbed unit.
i still have one myself.
im still using one as a daily driver and it holds up well.
i'm glad it stil holds up.
did some reading and saw that some have this white screen issue.
theres a large thread about screen issues with the second gen pro, which is why id recommend a newer model after saving a bit more.
even my old 12.9 has the backlight issue to some degree, it doesnt really bother me much as i just tend to use dark mode and rarely run past 50 brightness.
there is also some mention of touch disease but havent really noticed it.
someone here could likely explain that better than i can.
it will get more than 2 years of os updates.
a10x is still capable and even has more ram than a11,
still love and use my gen 2 12.9 daily.
plenty fast and a great screen.
personally i'd only buy a gen 2 as a certified refurb direct from apple.
my gen 2 is still covered monthtomonth with applecare and i'm glad to have that coverage.
i have had two replacements due to touchscreen sensitivity issues in the past 3 years of ownership.
so far this 3rd unit is working ok
so i'll be keeping this device for at least another year and a half or so before looking to upgrade it.
most people who own these things are trouble free but my experience has been different.
its still a great ipad.
its just such a great machine, i already have the case, keyboard and pencil for it, it works really well and really fast, and for now i have zero interest in anything newer.
given the inherently limited nature of ipados, i dont believe theres anything that a newer ipad can do that the 2017 version doesnt do excellently as well.
i still have my 2nd gen ipad pro 12.9.
for browsing and watching videos, it's still a very capable machine.
in fact, browsing web on ipad pro is better than my 2015 mpb.
i still use my 10.5 plenty.
great for media.
i'll defer to others on the updates and battery life.
this sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.