you are using an out of date browser.
it  may not display this or other websites correctly.
i thought i noticed this on the ones i looked at in the apple store today and even checked to see if it was the nano display and it was not.
i just rote it off as my imagination and forgot about it.
now i've seen a couple of other reports on the web in regards to this.
anyone else seeing this up close?
updatesetup my 11 and i do not see this issue at all.
i havent.
you said youd seen other reports on the web  can you post links?
yes, looks like theres quite a few reports of this
wonder if it's the stacked oled displays?
it's not noticeable on phones.
op spotted it on some models in store.
maybe there are some defective units?
sorry i worded it badly.
i didn't really check to see if some had it and some did not.
i thought it was just my imagination.
i updated my original.
i noticed it on some units today during my visit to my local apple store too, but assumed they were nanodisplay models.
if this is a widespread issue, well soon know about it!
i went ahead and opened my 11.
im setting it up now.
from what i can tell it's not too bad.
i looked at it with a magnifying glass and compared to my iphone.
with the magnifier the pixels look a bit larger compared to the iphone but that to be expected as its 264ppi vs 460 for the iphone.
ill report back once i get it setup etc.
great.
remember you can always return it and get it replaced if there are any issues.
apart from my small sleep wake delay when tapping or pressing the button, the ipad m4 is great.
however i cant get past what seems to be a grainy screen.
its most noticeable at mid brightnesses on graymuted colours and looks like a photo taken with high isolots of film grain but very fine.
i compared it like for like to my m2 ipad pro and its not there on that one, even taking account of the tint differences of the two screens.
another one with the very noticeable grain, at low to mid brightnesses on grays and muted colours.
i cant not see it
are you viewing the display from a normal distance?
or do you have your nose up to it?
should we start figuring out which model this is happening to and trying to pull up a display code?
is it happening to both the 11 and 13?
haha no normal distances, with my eyes i cant focus on anything easily much closer than normal distance so definitely not in my face
i have the nano display and even its not the slightest bit grainy.
i dont know why anyone would want anything other than the nano display, its spectacular.
especially able to reproduce it on the gray areas in the settings app with dark mode on and being in a dark room and 40 brightness.
well this passed my excitement and possible picking up my pre order.
i may wait a few days to see if apple acknowledges it.
i spent a long time with the nano display in my local apple store.
the text was noticeably less crisp, the colours more muted and the blacks slightly washed out.
however i think a huge contributing factor to peoples perception of the nanodisplay and any display for that mattter is to do with  perception.
we all see slightly different things i guess.
glad everything i own is now oled.
love the upgrade for the screen alone.
i just set up my 11 and dont see it at all.
i was mainly looking at the 13s in the store where i first noticed it
this sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.