you are using an out of date browser.
it  may not display this or other websites correctly.
does anyone here have an ipad pro 2018?
and if so, how happy are you with it in 2022almost 23?
i may have a chance to get one quite cheaply but if its deemed unusable nowadays then ill skip it.
i would mainly use it for stuff like goodnotes, word with magic keyboard, maybe some garageband
although i prefer that on a lap or desktop, and the odd and fairly simple procreate project.
ultimately, i would get it for the size 12.9 rather than the sheer power.
it won't be unusable that's for certain.
i was using an air2 up until 2 weeks ago and although slow at times it still worked fine for normal everyday use.
a matter of fact, i still use it when i'm charging my new ipad..
i guess it all depends what you'll be using it for in the end.
i brought a refurnished 2015 ipad 12.9 at woot.com four months ago at low price and man, the estate of the screen really blew my mind after using ipad 9.7 and 10.2 for several years.
you'll be glad you got 2018 ipad pro 12.9.
it's worth it.
i find my 2018 12.9 ipad pro works quite well for most things, however, it does feel sluggish if im building an app in playgrounds, watching a movie in pip and have stage manager turned on.
thats a pretty extreme scenario
so i imagine it would be a good fit for your use case.
the magic keyboard is a great accessory and is compatible with the latest m2 based ipad pro as well, giving you a decent upgrade path.
same goes for the apple pencil, though i use mine primarily for navigation and playing mini motorways rather than drawing or handwritten notes.
i noticed apples refurbished store had several discounted 12.9 ipad pro 2018 or newer
so you a want to double check that the deal youre getting is as good as what you can pick up from apple.
i was pretty sure it would still be more than suitable but i figured it'd be useful to get some experience reports
i have the magic keyboard for my ipad air and as marketingspeak and hyperbolic as it may sound, it has actually completely changed how i use the ipad.
as for refurbished, that's absolutely what i would go for but unfortunately, it's not available directly from apple here
it is extraordinarily useful in 2022.
the 2018 ipad pro was overkill.
i suggest you rewatch the keynote introduction to the pro to remind you of how far ahead of its time it was.
and for your use case, it is more than capable.
the 2018 is getting long in the tooth, depending on your usage.
it doesnt have enough ram to do many of the more advanced things in apps like photoshop, for example the app actually states this when you try to use a particular function.
its probably fine for a few more years for general ipad stuff  but for more advanced stuff its reached its limit for me.
i have 3 of them...
and they are still amazing devices.
for your use case it's actually better that the m1, because it's lighter.
i actually still use the 12.9 2018 more than the 12.9 m1 because of that.
for your use case ram does not make much difference unless you move frequently among those apps then you'll have reloads.
speedwise it's still extremely smooth, much smoother than anything with a8x, a9x or a10x.
i barely notice the speed difference with m1 in normal use sure you can see it side by side, but it's a bit like going from 1440p to 2160p 4k on a laptop screen.
sure 4k is sharper but does it really make much difference at that size?
they are both very sharp just like m1 and a12x are still both very smooth other than in some extreme scenarios.
for your use case, it is extremely competent.
it will be fast and perform as well as expected.
it depends on usage patterns, requirements and expectations.
apple has to optimise ios for lower ram devices, because they keep releasing them.
it doesnt mean that its ideal, but i doubt itll be absolutely horrible.
im still using mine and just cant find a reason to replace it.
i suppose it depends on what you use it for.
i use mine for web browsing, gaming, colouring, watching videos, social media and music.
i have the 2018 ipad pro 11 and it works really well for those things.
i have no issues and in terms of speed and fluidity i cant tell the difference between that and my ipad mini 6.
i was only worried about the ram, but in the store it was super fast snd fluid even editing photos with no difference in performance at all compared to the pro that was next to it.
on the crashes mostly when multitasking, i assume?
i also have an air 2
and i found this device to be almost unusable except if all you doing is light web browsing or watching youtube video.
all other tasks will heat up mu air 2 with good lag and extremely slow loading times.
in fact, everything is slow and painful on this device, for me at least.
on the other hand, the 2018 ipad pro is still a very good tablet.
the screen is exactly the same for the 11' one as well.
i still use my 11' 2018 one a lot alongside my m1 one
and yes, i can see the performance is better on my m1, especially for ram management, but other than that, the experience is extremely similar for everyday and light tasks.
well my air2 is running 14.8.1
so it actually does pretty good as far as performance goes.
i didn't think updating to ios15 was necessary as i really prefer the layout and interface of ios14 when compared to the changes made to the ipad on ios15.
also the hit on the already worn battery that ios15 would of brought didn't interest me either
very similar experience.
the air 2 felt slow already on ios 12 when you also had the 9.7 pro... i call this the spoil effect, a faster device spoils you and you find you older one too slow... 15 years ago nobody complained about hdds, now with ssds, hdds feel unbearably slow.
i sold it in 2019 because of that.
the 10.5 was quite a bit snappier than the 9.7 pro
but it didn't manage to spoil me.
what did spoil me was the 2018 pro, that one was so smooth that the first gen pro started too feel laggy lack of ram didn't help.
and it still does.
the m1 had definitely not managed to spoil me in the slightest, the only real advantage is ram, in terms of speed the experience is very similar.
it's like moving from a sata iii ssd to a pcie one.
makes little difference other than for very large files, in daily use you barely notice the difference.
most typical example when it's annoying is youtube i don't use the youtube app, because safari allows me to watch youtube adfree for free.
open videos stay open where i left them on m1 most of the time.
also what is heavy multitasking on an ipad?
an ipad for the most part cannot run backgrond apps like desktops, and i don't use split screen because it's cramped, let alone stage manager, which is pretty bad at this stage.
so my only heavy multitasking is moving from app to app and from tab to tab.
and that's where at some point things start to reload...
that's the only difference.
but other than that the 2018 is virtually just as smooth and is actually lighter, so more pleasant to hold.
this sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.