apple has made what was already the best small form factor pc even better thanks to a more compact design, and it packs the new m4 and m4 pro chips  all while offering incredible value for money as well.
i can't recommend this mac enough.
the new mac mini m4, 2024 doesnt just prove that good things come in small packages  it also confirms the old adage that good things come to those who wait.
in early 2024, myself  and im sure other mac fans  have been notsopatiently waiting for apple devices that can take full advantage of the
, you can only run ipados apps on it  which by their very nature are not that demanding.
the fact that apple has launched a new mac mini that not only comes with the new m4 chip or the more powerful m4 pro, but has redesigned it to be smaller than ever  while also keeping the price of entry the same  is incredibly exciting.
its seriously impressive how small the new mac mini is, and it makes placing it in any room of your home or office easier than ever.
thanks to two usbc ports at the front, the mac mini m4, 2024 is an ideal mini pc for your front room  especially as gaming is a renewed focus for apple.
this could be the closest we ever come to an apple games console  and with a price tag below the
, this could be the start of a resurgence for mac gaming.
from my time with the mac mini i was incredibly impressed with the performance of this tiny pc.
the latest version of macos,
, ran smoothly, and even advanced tasks such as video editing were handled with ease  and the mac mini kept virtually silent throughout.
the model i reviewed is the m4 version, and to be honest it performed so well for all the tasks i used it for that i would recommend this model over the far more expensive
so, apple has done it again its released the best small form factor pc in the world, and i cant see windows 11 or linux alternatives coming close to the build quality, performance and value for money of the new mac mini for a long, long time.
you can see how much smaller yet taller the new mac mini is compared to the m2 model below
mac mini m4, 2024
already represented excellent value for money  it would be extremely difficult to find a compact
pc at that price range that offered the same level of performance  so the fact that youre getting an upgrade in both performance and design for no extra cost is something to applaud  though if you recently bought an m2 mac mini, you might feel a bit aggrieved.
sure, with the mac mini you dont get a screen, nor do you have the ability to work on it while traveling, but offering the same amount of power for around half the price still represents incredible value for money.
the m4 chip features up to a 10core cpu 4 performance cores and 6 efficiency cores and a 10core gpu, up from the 8core cpu and 8core gpu of the base m3 chip apple never released a mac mini with the m3, it should be noted, and supports up to 38 trillion operations per second tops in its 16core neural engine apple's version of an npu
so when apple intelligence, the companys generative ai artificial intelligence feature does come to macos, the m4 mac mini will be more than prepared.
not only does this mean the new mac mini is much better at multitasking as theres more memory to support multiple apps running at once, but its also more futureproof.
thats quite a price jump, and while the m4 pro is certainly a promising bit of silicon on paper, itll have to really outperform the m4 to justify the price difference.
having the m4 pro option is nice, despite the price hike, as you are getting a seriously powerful pc in a tiny and almost silent form factor.
there was also a brief moment between apple announcing the new mac mini and it revealing the new macbook pros with m4 pro where the m4 pro mac mini was arguably the most powerful mac device ever.
remarkable.
2x
usbc, 3x thunderbolt 4 usbc, hdmi, 3.5mm headphone jack, ethernet
2x usbc, 3x thunderbolt 5 usbc, hdmi, 3.5mm headphone jack, ethernet
the mac mini m4, 2024 has received its biggest redesign since arguably 2011, and its now what apple calls its smallest computer ever.
where the previous model had dimensions of 197 x 197 x 35.8 mm 7.75 x 7.75 x 1.41 inches, the new mac mini m4, 2024 measures just 127 x 127 mm x 50 mm 5 x 5 x 2 inches.
when taking it out of the box, its seriously impressive how small it is, easily fitting in the palm of your hand.
placing it on top of the m2 model, the older mac mini looked big and bulky  something id never have imagined, as that was an impressively small bit of kit when it launched.
the new mac mini is a bit taller than the older models, but if thats the sacrifice that had to be made in order to shrink the overall footprint of the pc, while packing it with the latest tech, then its one im happy with.
itll easily fit behind a monitor, and even in front of a screen, its unobtrusive enough that youll hardly notice it.
its small size also means you can plug it into your tv and it wont look out of place in your lounge.
for anyone holding out for an apple games console, the mac mini m4, 2024 could end up being as close as youre going to get.
as if to prove that the new mac mini can be just as at home in a lounge as in an office or studio, it now comes with two usbc ports at the front, alongside a headphone jack for easy access.
there's a decent port selection at the back of the new mac mini
at the rear theres a power port impressively, despite the tiny size, theres no bulky external psu, an ethernet port and an hdmi thats capable of up to
there are also three additional usbc ports.
while the new design is a triumph on the whole, one element of the redesign has caused controversy  the placement of the power button.
rather than being on the rear righthand corner of the mac mini, as with previous models, it is now located on the bottom of the mac mini by the rear lefthand corner.
while the mac mini is raised from the surface you place it on by a circular air vent bottomcenter of the pc, you still need to lift it up to reach the button.
as the new mac mini is so small and light, and there are no moving parts inside except for fans, this isnt too much of a problem, though if youve placed the mac mini in a tv cabinet or somewhere where its hard to reach, it could be frustrating.
the power button is now on the bottom of the device which is an odd design choice
there are workarounds  you could just put the mac mini to sleep rather than shutting it down, and waking it up by moving the mouse or tapping the keyboard, but even macs need to be fully powered down every now and again.
you could also use the wakeonlan feature of macos, which allows you to turn on the mac mini by sending a command over the internet, though again youll need the mac mini to be asleep, not fully turned off.
its certainly not the end of the world, but its not one of apples better design choices.
placing the power button on the top or front of the mac mini might ruin the aesthetics, but would have been easier to reach  or even having the power button still on the bottom, but on one of the front corners would have helped.
the new mac mini only comes with the device itself and a power cord.
any other cables or peripherals will need to be bought separately though if youve already got, say, an hdmi cable and a mouse and keyboard, then that shouldnt be too much of a burden.
these have had slight design changes as they now use the universal usbc cable to plug in and charge, rather than apples proprietary lightning cable, which is good to see.
didnt take the opportunity to move the charging port of the magic mouse
 its still located at the bottom of the mouse, which is a baffling design choice as it means when you plug it in to charge you cant continue using it.
of course, you dont need these new peripherals as any maccompatible mouse or keyboard which is any mouse or keyboard, basically will work  though theres no fullsize usb a port anymore, so if those peripherals arent usbc or bluetooth, then you might need to buy an adapter.
once upon a time i was rather worried that apple had fallen out of love with macs, and especially the mac mini, as the company seemed far more enamored with its iphone and ipads, leaving its macs to make do with incremental hardware updates within increasingly outdated designs.
and made its own chips, starting with the m1 in 2020, and my doubts have pretty much vanished, as every major mac device has not only been upgraded to an mseries chip, but theyve also had noticeable redesigns as well, proving that apple is committed to its mac lineup.
so, its with some relief that the mac mini has not just got the latest m4 and m4 pro chips, but also a major redesign as well, as its likely to be one of apples more niche products.
apple's infographic about the m4 chip shows the kind of performance the company is promising
it shouldnt be  since getting mseries chips, the mac mini has become the best small form factor pc you can buy.
small pcs with either windows 11 or linux simply cannot match the build quality, performance, and price of apples tiny machine, and with the m4 chip, that gap has become even wider.
along with the 10core cpu and 10core gpu of the m4, the chip contains 28 billion transistors, up from 25 billion in the m3, but is still built on the same 3nm process node from tsmc, so a generational leap is out of the question.
in synthetic benchmarks theres around a 20 increase in cpu performance when using geekbench 6, though gpu performance upticks are more modest, with between 5  14 increases in benchmarks.
despite its smaller size, the mac mini m4 offers an excellent boost in performance compared to the previous model
while any increase is always welcome, those kind of numbers mean if you have an m3 mac mini, you wont really see any major differences in performance, so upgrading might not be worth it unless you absolutely have to have the smaller design of the newer mac mini, which i wouldnt blame you for.
where things do get interesting when comparing performance between the m3 and m4 mac mini is when it comes to ai  both artificial intelligence and apple intelligence.
with the m4, apple has included another 16core neural engine dedicated to machine learning and ai tasks, and in ai benchmarks the results are pretty remarkable, with around a 35 increase in performance over the m3.
whether or not apple intelligence, or ai in general, will usher in the computing revolution weve been promised by many manufacturers has yet to be seen, but at the very least you know that if you buy an m4 mac mini or any m4 device, youll be in good stead should you wish to use future ai tools.
according to apple, the m4 chip is capable of 38 tops  that's 38,000,000,000,000 operations per second  which is incredibly impressive and means ondevice ai tasks should run well.
however, the snapdragon x elite, like the m4 an
based chip built for windows 11 devices, offers 45 tops.
that difference in operations per second isnt huge, and it might not even be noticeable, especially when comparing windows 11s copilot ai tool to apple intelligence, but its worth noting.
apple intelligence is introduced to macs in macos sequoia 15.1  and youll need to update the new mac mini to get that version  thankfully, its quick and easy process.
the
 macos sequoia  booted quickly, and every app i used loaded speedily and ran smoothly.
were now four years on from when apple made the major move from intelbased hardware to armbased, and that has allowed pretty much every major mac application to make the move as well.
this means its now very rare to have to use apples rosetta 2 tool, which allows apps made for intel macs to run on modern apple silicon macs.
that tool was essential in the early m1 days, and it meant you could still run your apps with minimal impact to performance.
now that almost every mac app, including those from third parties, runs natively on apple silicon means they can fully take advantage of the power of the m4 chip though
, the popular store and launcher for pc games, still requires rosetta to run.
heres how the mac mini m4, 2024 performed in our suite of benchmark tests
one of the best things about apples mclass chips is that the company has made a big commitment to making them as powerefficient as possible, and while this might benefit macbooks more, as it means they can enjoy longer battery lives, the mac mini also benefits, as the more efficient m4 chip runs cooler, which allowed apple to shrink the body of the mac mini  and it also means the builtin fans that are used to expel hot air when the components are being used rarely kick in.
for almost all of my time using the new mac mini, it was virtually silent.
this is great when using it in an office or studio, and it also makes it an ideal mini pc for the front room.
even when switching to more intensive tasks, such as editing videos in
premiere pro, the mac mini kept pace brilliantly as i added 4k footage and scrolled between scenes.
these are modern and ambitious games, so for a compact pc thats not designed for gaming at this price, that performance is pretty darn great, and you have access to a huge library of mac games through steam and other platforms.
throughout playing, the mac mini remained completely silent.
while the m4 model isnt going to trouble the ps5 pro any time soon when it comes to playing games, the fact that such a small device can still give a decent experience is pretty cool, and i assume the m4 pro model is an even more competent gaming device, though for the price that is a lot steeper than any console  and even many
apple has also made a big deal about the m4 chip and its ai abilities, and from my tests it's... fine.
apple intelligence is in its infancy, so i could not try out all the features that are coming, but i was able to edit a photo in the included photos app and use the aipowered clean up feature to remove elements from a photo.
it worked as well as you might expect these early ai features to perform  it was quick and easy to do, but the background the ai generates in order for the objects you select by painting over them with a brush left mistakes and errors that mean it's far from perfect, and you can easily tell ai has been used.
from the ai tools so far, they are interesting yet not essential  bascially the same problem many ai tools have at the moment.
for the mac mini's part, it performed those ai feats all ondevice, and they were done quickly and speedily.
this is an area where i can see the mac mini improving.
the new mac mini once again offers phenomenal value for money
the new design is fantastic, with a smaller footprint and additional ports.
just a shame about the placement of the power button
simply amazing performance for a mini pc at this price, though it struggles with modern games a bit
this is the cheapest way to get into the mac ecosystem, and it's worth every cent thanks to excellent performance and a gorgeous design.
put simply, if you want a small form factor pc, this is the one to get.
no windows 11 mini pc can come close.
thanks to its compact size, you can easily fit this below or behind a tv, and it does a decent job of playing games, though the m4 pro model may offer a better experience with modern titles.
while you can play a growing library of maccompatible games, if you want to play the latest titles at high definitions and graphical settings whacked up to the max, buy a dedicated gaming pc instead.
due to the size, and apple's general disdain for allowing its customers to open up their devices, this is not a pc you can upgrade yourself.
a barebones mini pc like a nuc will be much better.
having written for a number of publications such as pc plus, pc format, t3 and linux format, there's no aspect of technology that matt isn't passionate about, especially computing and pc gaming.
hes personally reviewed and used most of the laptops in our best laptops guide  and since joining techradar in 2014, he's reviewed over 250 laptops and computing accessories personally.
dont want to pay full price for a cuttingedge macbook pro or mac mini?
apples now selling m4 refurbs that are more affordable, but still have a years warranty
amazon has some of the best macbook air deals i've seen since black friday
everything we know about ai video tool
i went to the set of disney's a thousand blows series and this epic new drama has revived victorian east end london
i reviewed this laser engraver and cutter and in my experience, it's one of the most desirable machines out there
i read the eus ai act so you dont have to  here are 5 things you need to know
5 thrilling tech reviews of the week why the samsung galaxy s25 plus is your mustbuy new phone and hisenses best ever miniled tv