you are using an out of date browser.
it  may not display this or other websites correctly.
for the average user, is there much to gain by spending another 200 to get 8 gb more of memory?
i realize that with today's laptops there isn't much hope of selfupgrade, so what you buy is what you get.  also considering 512 gb vs 1 tb of storage.
this is more of a question of internal vs external storage.
fans will overwhelming push base as plenty for everyone...
even some 99 will be slung.
fans always push what apple has for sale now.
later, when there is a problem with sometimes very passionate advice like this, they'll basically blame you for buying too little back in 2024 and recommend buying a new mac as the remedy.
that's great for apple and not so great for you... but crucial to considering such input they are fans of apple,
the key to your question depends on how one interprets average.
same with storage but not quite the same degree of consideration since you can lean on external storage if you need more later.
the hassle in external storage with a laptop is just connectingdisconnecting and carrying the extra stuff everywhere you may need it.
that may seem like a very small hassle, but it can be a practical hassle every time you want to use the laptop.
again, try to anticipate maximum future storage needs on device.
between the 2, prioritize ram.
there is no adding it later.
but if you can afford both and think you'll need both, save up and pay too much relatively for both... and then not worry about this stuff for life of device.
some may chime in arguing for base ram because ssd swap can cover some spikes in ram demand.
that's true.
but too many writes wear out ssds and when the internal ssd conks, you
to buy a new mac.
so get enough ram to minimize swap use and you don't have to worry about this issue either.
some fans will argue that swap should not be a concern because modern ssds can... but hop back to similar worries about the ssd part of fusion drives to see the same kind of don't worry about it posts and then search threads for problems with worn out ssds in fusion drives.
again, fans pushrationalize whatever apple has for sale now.
so anything you get from fans is very biased in support of the corps objectives.
bottom line if you can wildly guessimagine a need for the added ram through about 2031, pay up for it.
and the same for upgrading the ssd though if pinched you can deal with the added hassle of external storage if you opt to not get enough internal ssd to cover your own needs through about 2031.
for discrete video cards, like the m4 gpu can perform similarly to  8 gb of vram isn't much.
if you only have 16 gb, that only leaves 8 for the rest of the os if running anything reasonably gpu heavy.
if you go 24, you have double the ram left for the cpu when running something needing 8 gb of vram.
if you don't do anything gpu heavy 16 is probably fine.
that said, consider your usage and look at the total cost of the system you're buying vs. the cost of the incremental upgrade and consider how it will impact system longevity.
extra 8 gb of ram is a couple of hundred dollars on a machine worth 4 figures, and ram is a real limiting factor on system usefulness over time.
i thought long and hard about it too because the price difference between the base model and the pro model here in canada is 600.
i chose the pro model for a few reasons.
 50 more ram valuable when video or photo editing.
 less fan noise compared to the base model.
it's pretty significant.
the fans don't spin up as much because there are two.
i don't think the max chip is worth it.
ive seen many reviews that said skip the max.
it has very little gain over the pro model.
the reality is that unused ram  wasted ram, so macos and other oses for that matter always attempt to utilize as much as they can by preloading or caching stuff.
this mechanism has been standard for many years now.
that's how you end up with way higher ram usage than you'd expect, and it's very misleading to think it reflects your requirements.
the only thing you're potentially missing out on is milliseconds that could be saved here and there by the os being generous with ram overcommitting and having it e.g. cache some app you usually open, but it's closed right now  so the next startup takes .3 of a second instead of .5
i don't think the max chip is worth it.
ive seen many reviews that said skip the max.
it has very little gain over the pro model
it literally has approximately 2x the gpu power, 2x the encoders and higher available ram capacities.
if you dont need those things sure.
but saying there is little gain over the pro is just false.
i've read reviews that said that the marginal performance jump wasn't worth it.
going from the base model to the pro model you'll see a bigger increase.
this sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.