m4 macbook pro  5 reasons to buy and 2 reasons to skip  tom's guide
i've been using the 14inch macbook pro m4 for a few weeks, and based on my
you can buy.
i'm a big fan of the nanotexture display that obliterates glare, the superlong battery life and the speedy m4 chip with apple intelligence powers.
however, there are some things i don't like about this system, especially for the starting 1,599 price 1,949 as tested.
here's the reasons to buy  and skip  the new macbook pro m4.
the idea of a glarefree laptop nothing new, but the macbook pro m4's screen isn't a simple matte panel.
apple uses
, in which glass is etched at the nanometer level.
the etching scatters incoming light while preserving contrast and color accuracy.
showing off the difference between the macbook pro m4 with the nanotexture display and an older macbook without it and the benefit is pretty obvious  i dont think id be exaggerating to call it a revelation.
the nanotexture panel does an amazing job minimizing glare and reflections, and this is coming from someone who spends a lot of time working in my backyard and on the bus.
pair that with over 1,500 nits hdr brightness tested, and the macbook pro m4 display looks awesome even out in sunlight .
the only drawback is that this feature costs 150 extra.
the base m4 macbook pro is more than enough for most users, and you get more than 100 off right now.
apple promises up to 24 hours of battery life for the macbook pro m4, but that's for streaming video.
whenever we test a laptop we run our proprietary websurfing battery test.
the macbook pro m4 lasted an epic 18 hours and 31 minutes, which is an hour longer than the already great macbook pro m3 and
lunar lake.
only the snapdragon xpowered dell xps 13 lasted longer.
i recently had a power outage in my home that started at 9 a.m., with power not restored until close to 4 p.m.
and the macbook pro m4 was still chugging along with about 29 battery life left in all that time.
the biggest reason to upgrade to the macbook pro m4 is the performance.
this machine gets the newest m4 chip that is based on a 3nanometer process, promising the fastest cpu core and better multithreaded performance than m3.
based on our testing, the m4 blows a lot of the competition away but not on every test.
anecdotally, i've been running up to a dozen apps, editing photos, streaming, just really trying to stress the machine and it still runs smoothly.
features are powered by the m4.
ive been running the developer beta of macos 15.2, which includes chatgpt support, but alreadyreleased features include the improved
with the option to type to siri, helpful writing tools, and photos features like clean up.
image playground, part of the ios 18.2 beta, is also pretty fun to play with.
apple intelligence beats microsoft's copilot in windows 11
finally, we get support for dual external displays with this macbook pro.
i say finally because this is one of those things that is definitely long overdue and has been on my wishlist for a while as a macbook pro user.
a machine this powerful should have no trouble hooking up to two displays simultaneously while also having the laptop open, so you can have three displays in one.
it helps that the base model now has three thunderbolt 4 ports, compared to two previously, although if you want more bandwidth with thunderbolt 5, youll need to step up to a m4 pro model.
it now features a 12mp center stage camera, up from the 1080p camera on the m3 macbook pro.
i noticed a big difference in image quality when i took some selfies using the photo booth app, but you'll really appreciate the boost during for video calls.
center stage support means that youll be kept centered in the frame even as you move around, which can come in handy when giving presentations.
this is a feature thats been available on ipads for a while, but i'm still glad to see it on mac.
a reason id skip the macbook pro m4 goes back to some of the benchmark tests i mentioned earlier.
one negative surprise in our performance testing was the ssd speed.
on the blackmagic disk speed test, the new macbook pro was slightly slower than the previousgen m3 model, which is strange.
its read and write speeds were also behind the top windows systems.
so if you tend to transfer or save really large files, you might not be very happy.
from my personal experience, while the macbook pro m4
run big titles, the performance and speed just isnt what youd get compared to one of the
.
for example, borderlands 3 ran at a paltry 23 fps, which is not quite playable.
on the plus side, i did have a blast playing resident evil 4 and the graphics look awesome in a gruesome way.
but if i were getting this macbook pro for gaming id step up to an m4 pro or max chip for more gpu cores.
as someone who has been living with an aging macbook pro m1, the m4 macbook pro is an ideal upgrade for me.
its noticeably faster, and youll be able to take better advantage of all the new apple intelligence features.
i especially like the nanotexture display for a glarefree experience and the extralong battery life.
still, i wish the ssd was faster, and for this kind of money i dont think you should have to pay more for a beefier gpu to get silky smooth frame rates on the latest games.
let us know in the comments and if theres anything else youd like us to go deeper on.
save up to 500 on these early black friday macbook deals
the ultimate macbook hierarchy m4 vs m3 vs m2 vs m1 tested and ranked
don't look now, but macs are finally good for gaming
sign up to get the best of tom's guide direct to your inbox.
in addition to overseeing the direction of tom's guide, mark specializes in covering all things mobile, having reviewed dozens of smartphones and other gadgets.
he has spoken at key industry events and appears regularly on tv to discuss the latest trends, including
and other outlets.
macbook air m4 tipped for imminent arrival  here's when it could launch
apple macbook air m4 and ipad air upgrades could follow the iphone se 4
how to watch 'saturday night live 50th anniversary special' online  tv channel, live streams, special guests
the awara natural hybrid mattress drops to just 664 for a queen in black fridaybeating amazon presidents' day sale
hot sleepers!