for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
I thought I noticed this on the ones I looked at in the Apple Store today and even checked to see if it was the nano display and it was not. I just rote it off as my imagination and forgot about it.  Now I've seen a couple of other reports on the web in regards to this.  I just picked up the 11" 1TB cellular that cost a pretty penny but thinking of not even opening it and returning if this becomes more of an apparent issue.  Anyone else seeing this up close?
Update:setup my 11 and I do not see this issue at all.
I haven’t. You said you’’d seen other reports on the web - can you post links?
Yes, looks like there’s quite a few reports of this:
Wonder if it's the stacked oled displays? It's not noticeable on phones.
OP spotted it on some models in store. Maybe there are some defective units?
Sorry I worded it badly.  I didn't really check to see if some had it and some did not.  I thought it was just my imagination.  I updated my original.
I think some of the folks on Reddit also said they noticed it in—store too. I noticed it on some units today during my visit to my local Apple store too, but assumed they were Nano-display models.
If this is a widespread issue, we’ll soon know about it!
I've seen as many credible posts on Reddit as I've seen here. MacRumors is no paragon.
I went ahead and opened my 11.  Im setting it up now. From what I can tell it's not too bad.  I looked at it with a magnifying glass and compared to my iPhone.  With the magnifier the pixels look a bit larger compared to the iPhone but that to be expected as its 264ppi vs 460 for the iPhone.  Ill report back once I get it setup etc.
Great. Remember you can always return it and get it replaced if there are any issues.
Apart from my small sleep wake delay when tapping or pressing the button, the iPad m4 is great. However I can’t get past what seems to be a grainy screen. It’s most noticeable at mid brightnesses on gray/muted colours and looks like a photo taken with high ISO/lots of film grain but very fine. I compared it like for like to my m2 iPad Pro and it’s not there on that one, even taking account of the tint differences of the two screens.
Another one with the very noticeable grain, at low to mid brightnesses on grays and muted colours. I can’t not see it
Are you viewing the display from a normal distance? Or do you have your nose up to it?
Should we start figuring out which model this is happening to and trying to pull up a display code? Is it happening to both the 11” and 13”?
Haha no normal distances, with my eyes I can’t focus on anything easily much closer than “normal” distance so definitely not in my face
I have the Nano display and even it’s not the slightest bit grainy.  I don’t know why anyone would want anything other than the Nano display, its spectacular.
Same here. Especially able to reproduce it on the gray areas in the settings app with dark mode on and being in a dark room and 40% brightness. 11-inch here
Well this passed my excitement and possible picking up my pre order.   I may wait a few days to see if apple acknowledges it.
I spent a long time with the nano display in my local Apple Store. The text was noticeably less crisp, the colours more muted and the blacks slightly washed out. However… i think a huge contributing factor to people’s perception of the nano-display (and any display for that mattter) is to do with  perception. We all see slightly different things I guess.
Consistently it’s the 11 inch from what I have Seen on Reddit.
My 11” 1TB screen looks great. Glad everything I own is now OLED. Love the upgrade for the screen alone.
I just set up my 11 and don’t see it at all. I was mainly looking at the 13s in the store where I first noticed it
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.