for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
Statement series studio case for the 11" Ipad pro M4 and I'm really impressed!
Not only did it come pre bent, Otterbox took the time and consideration to leave out any sort of felt padding on the inside it's thin plastic frame. This is great because dirt and debris trapped inside will scratch the ipad causing a unique look.
The stand has 2 positions and will stay put on flat surfaces and probably not so much on your lap if you would like to use the taller setting.
An other cool thing about the stand being so thin is it allows a new fun feature I call
This absorbs every touch and bounces it back to you. So fun!!
It's amazing that Otterbox being the only third-party company to sell on Apple.com on day #1, doesn't take advantage of this in any way. A true innovation and well worth the $119.95 CAD! What do you think?
I returned mine immediately. Very flimsy for an expensive case. Someone will make something for $30 on Amazon that will be better quality in the coming months.
I bought it from Apple and when I received it the next day I returned it, it didn't convince me, totally, I agree with the review
This is why future me will hopefully take a breath and not order pre launch. Let case makers more deserving of my $ catch up.
I also bought and returned this case to apple today. Got the Apple Folio, which has been improved from prior years, instead.
Other than the smart cover hinge on the bottom, it looks like a cheapo Amazon case I’d buy until the good ones come to market. I’d permanently glue that pencil drawer shut, probably cut that flap off or glue it down if it doesn’t hold, and bingo a cheapo case!
Figure I would post this as a PSA and save some potential grief.
How do you like it? Does that work propped up on your lap laying down?
I ordered an ESR case from Amazon. Hopefully it will be better or at least good enough to tide me over until something better gets released. I’m typing this on a naked iPad and it’s so light and thin. No way I’d just throw this in a bag like this.
I’m really liking the updated Apple folio. Using it on my lap as we speak and it stays much better than my two-gens-prior Apple folio. I’ll be returning my cheapo Amazon case with a plastic back too as I’ve had those leave scratches on iPads before.
Anyone afraid that the edges of the iPad will not be protected if using the iPad folio?
I think adding a D-Brand skin to the Folio may be best of both worlds (provided it offers side, top, and bottom stickers). I’ve sent Dbrand an email to see if this is something they offer. This new iPad is so light and thin.. Schleping it everywhere necessitates the need for good protection.
I was thinking about this one since I’m not gonna get the Magic Keyboard and now I read this. Now what i guess I’ll have to get the Apple folio for now m no we priced but this looks pretty cheap. I’ll have to look at in store for now
I actually checked that out today. Not so good. Won’t stand well on a lap and won’t protect the sides, top and bottom. Apple used to make good iPad cases. Now I guess they would rather engineer their stuff so thin and make non protective cases so they sell you on apple care. Just a guess.
I have had a Targus case on my iPad 6th generation and it has served me well. It only comes in black and I am a bit sick of the color. I am looking at a Zugu cover. I am leaning towards that AND it comes in many different colors. Anyone have any experience with the Zugu brand?
I have had a Targus cover on my iPad 6th generation and it has served me well. I wanted something other than black so am looking at the Zugu case which comes in various colors and has good reviews. Anyone have any experience with the Zugu brand?
I’m a bit disappointed. I actually like the statement case because I want the kickstand, but my volume buttons are basically impossible to press and it’s a hard deal breaker, especially on a 90$ case. I just want a case with a surface like kickstand and purchased both this and the Logitech combo touch and don’t love either. I may try swapping it for another unit in store to see if it makes a difference. On their website they show the case buttons as raised, but mine are basically flat across and have no raise on them.
Are there any other cases with a pop out kickstand on the market yet? All these other bulky cases and folios such are definitely not the answer.
I am also in search for a case with a similar kickstand, for now the ESR shift case works for me. Feels and looks great.
I just got a Zugo for my IP10. I like it. I wanted a case that could securely hold either an Apple Pencil or a Logitech Crayon, and this checks that box. It seems very well made and looks like it will give great protection, but I definitely notice the weight.
I ordered it during the preorder of the iPad m4 and I have not received it. Not sure why there is a delay in the shipment, I received everything else ( iPad, pencil, etc) except the OtterBox case. it has been a week now and the package has not delivered. I am going to give apple a call to see if I can cancel the order since I was able to find a similar case on Amazon and for $40.
I guess I'll throw my 2 cents ( actually .95 cents ) in, since I picked up my iPP finally yesterday.
The TLDR before we start.  The case is an alternative to Apple's folio.  Neither is of the strongest materials.  If you want a folio that maintains the lightweight qualities of the iPad, Apple is your choice.  If you want a slight bit of protection & some weight, the Otterbox is your choice.
Let's get to it.  Yes, the case is flimsy, but I imagine it's in an attempt to keep the additional weight down.  Because the iPP's weight is a marvel, and the statement's full back coverage does add weight.  It also isn't the most secure fit on the iPP either.  Though I didn't find that lack of secure fit to interfere with using any of the buttons.  The cover doesn't look like it lines up properly, but in fact does snap into place properly.  Also, the case itself scuffs like crazy.
The appeal of the case to me at least, is the detachable cover & the kickstand.
I personally don't care for the covers that have the felt inside that touches your screen, also touch the table surfaces that you place the cover on.  The kickstand is perfect for that & the detachable cover means you aren't fumbling with it when it isn't needed.
As I said, the case is an alternative.  If it's going to be in the Apple store, I imagine Apple isn't going to let themselves be undercut, so the case is for reasons .95 cents more.  I think it's best to keep that in mind when considering this case.  If you want a tiny bit more protection & a different presentation for your iPP as compared to the folio then the statement is an option.
If you find the folio is too much, but want that format consider ESR's rebound case at a 3rd of the price.
I purchased the 13 inch version. I like the little drawer for the pencil. But… my Apple Pencil Pro doesn’t fit in there.
Just an FYI, no argument here. But did you figure out the from screen cover is magnetic and pulls off? You then reverse it and the stand flap can rest on the reversed flap? It took me awhile to figure that out. Instructions weren’t clear.
Frankly I don’t use it much, and have reverted to the Apple folio so I can easily switch the iPad 13” to the Apple Magic Keyboard.
Yea, ended up returned it the next day though. There’s no perfect case yet but the one I ended up with will do for now.
When I said it doesn’t fit, I mean that the pencil fits in depth but the drawer won’t close. Am I wrong to expect the drawer to fit the pencil AND close? '
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.