for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
Why did you choose the iPad Pro 12.9 over the MacBook Air?
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
Just curious about why some of you iPad Pro 12.9 users chose it over the MacBook Air? One of the biggest reasons for myself is that I mainly use a desktop computer. I like using the 12.9 iPad Pro since it is a different experience than what I already have on my desktop. I also really like the ability to remove the keyboard which I can't do on the Air. The iPad is also really fun to use since it has a touch screen.
If I'm going to do actual work, I prefer a desktop. The iPad can do light work but also is better for in the bed and general on-the-go use since it's more versatile.
But you can also dock a MBA to a screen and then take it everywhere else with you if you don't need a touch screen.
To me, it’s not really an either or question. I own both.
I just find myself preferring Windows desktop or ThinkPad for work and iPad for leisure (and some light work like PDF markup, email and video conference).
Granted, I’ve never been a fan of clamshells to begin with. I only used laptops because I had no other choice. Even before the iPad’s release, I’ve tried Windows slates and 2-in-1s but they were heavy, overheated, had poor battery life and touchscreen use pretty much required a stylus 90% of the time. iOS 4 was limited and not as open as Windows/Linux but it did get the essential touchscreen UI/UX right. That’s what got me started on iPads and I just kept upgrading over the years.
iPad is still fairly limited in terms of versatility. While it might echo the “vision” Apple sees future computing goes, now, it is not. Heavily limited by iPadOS and increasingly frustrating one-app-at-any-given-time philosophy (stage manager doesn’t help much) is just not a fun device to use.
MBA otoh, has all the benefit of desktop multitasking, versatility and portability to go along with it. If not because of Apple’s arbitrary limitations on iOS app support (which doesn’t really exist anymore), I’d say using MBA would be a much more fun experience than the most.
Still, I use my iPad Pro (11” instead of 12.9” for obvious reasons) way more than MacBook, simply because it is the best media consumption device among all Apple devices. Gaming on iPad has far more variety than on Mac. Browsing is more enjoyable than on iPhone, and can sometimes get real work done, which iPhone often cannot (basically anything that is not video editing or similar). It’s a weird hybrid, but I’d argue a good enough one.
Similarly to rui no onna, I have both Macs, PCs and iPads. Currently I am on "partial" holidays (I am abroad but I still do some small important tasks for some clients).
- My M1 Mac Mini (nice that I do not need to put in the cabin luggage like laptops)
My Mac Mini is main main computing/work device with a TV used as monitor (works great, especially in this very hot environment, does not overheat and stays silent.. and stays on all day, while my Thinkpad is on only when needed), my iPad pro is my video watching device around the house (and a second monitor for work for both the Mac and the PC) and my Thinkpad is my work device around the house and on the go. Both my iPad pro and Thinkpad have each a SIM Card (lots of GBs for very cheap).
There is no way I could work with my M1 iPad. I need Windows-only software to work. Even my Mac Mini basically runs Parallels more than MacOS stuff.
I wanted a tablet, not a Mac laptop - I already had a Win laptop.
I wanted a tablet and wanted the biggest size Apple offered, for notes, journaling, photos and a few occasional games.
When Sidecar was announced, the bulb went off and I thought it would be the perfect way to edit photos, with the Apple Pencil on the tablet and overall color/brightness on my older iMac's screen.  iMac was running the current OS, so I bought a 12.9" iPad Pro and a Pencil.
was too old, by about 6 months.  That was last year.  Gah.
I now have a new Studio and Studio Display, in their boxes, but other projects are in the way; soon I hope to have the editing setup I wanted last year.
tl;dr:  the iPad had pencil input, which I thought would be ideal for photo editing.  Air does not.
For Work: the pencil. Superior  for marking pdfs and to replace the black/white board.
For home: even a 14 inch iPad would be less cumbersome than a laptop in bed, on the sofa in the kitchen etc. A laptop is best used at a desk.
I do have a MBP+external screen (work) and iMac (home)
My 12" Macbook runs circles around any iPad with the exception of Apple Pencil based applications and for that I have an iPad mini.
Because I prefer a desktop (24" iMac) over laptops and the iPad Pro is a great device for use on the couch, in bed, traveling. for my use cases it's a superior device for content consumption and its a good companion device for work
You also get better hardware for the price in my view : Mini LED display, better speakers, brighter screen, promotion.
I use both. But if I have to choose only one, functionality wise I will choose MBA. In my everyday, I used iPad much more than MBA during off-work time because it can serve lot of my hobbies (non-work) stuff in flexible way.
The reasons I USED to choose iPad Pro 12.9 over Mac were:
--versatility between touch screen, Apple Pencil, and Magic Keyboard
I think the Mac has the iPad beat in most areas now that Apple Silicon is in full force, and I have moved off of the iPad Pro for most tasks at this point, but I still believe in the platform and still keep my mini 6 in arm's reach every day.
If I needed full computer capability, I’d own (and have owned) an iMac for that. My use case is such that an iPP (and to be honest, probably a base iPad) is all I need.
I like that it’s portable, always on, and I can throw it in my big purse when I’m traveling. Yes at this point with the 12.9, I could likely do the same with a laptop, but I’m used to my touch screen, and like that I can play my few favorite games on here, along with doing any actual “work” I need to do.
Another plus for me is the cellular capability. We live in a rural area where Wi-Fi is really awful, and even though our cellular isn’t much better, I can still use my iPad when Wi-Fi is out, not to mention when traveling.
Same, at least as far as the Pencil. I love the Pencil for note-taking and sketching, but am not an artist, which is the only reason left I'd have for owning a 12.9" iPad Pro.
I have a cellular mini 6 with an Apple Pencil, and kind of use it like my portable office when I feel like my iPhone is going to be too cramped. It has a really great mixture of use cases and my setup would feel less complete without it for sure.
Combination of touchscreen and portability, then there's cellular capabilities which the Mac lacks.
I don't care about using the Pencil with a Mac, but I would LOVE if the MacBooks had cellular built in. That's probably the feature I want the most in my next MacBook. I have it and use it on my iPad mini and find it so convenient. Even just to have it there in case I need it but not activated would be good peace of mind.
I mainly got the iPad Pro 11" to work with an Apple Pencil 2 as I take a lot of notes on it, which you obviously can't do on a MacBook Air. Having said that, though, I probably will get a MacBook of some type because sometimes I need to do things that don't quite work well on the iPad Pro. I think I'll get the iPad Pro Magic Keyboard first to see if I can avoid buying a MacBook.
Curious--have you seen the Center Stage feature yet, and do you plan on using it with your iPad?
I could not imagine not having an iPad, my 12.9 M1 is a perfect secondary device to my M1 iMac. I tried out the M1 Air at launch ahead of the M1 iMac release back then, however it was back to the sender after 3 days. 😗
Why didn’t you like the Air? What about the iPad Pro makes you like it more?
I simply needed the Apple Pencil to do illustrations and design for my business. If I didn't have that requirement, or if Apple bring Pencil support to the Macs, I'd jump for a MacBook Air and it's what I'd advise for most users who don't require touch/ pencil inputs.
When I look at the MacBook Air - both M1 and M2 - I feel they're a much better value proposition for most users. A laptop and smartphone are generally what most people require for their work and lifestyles whereas a tablet is a luxury. I think it's getting tougher to justify the iPad Pro pricing because the leaps MacBook have made since the M1 transition.
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.