for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
After returning an other iPad Pro M4 launch case (which I won’t name) I ordered this one off of Amazon in hopes it wouldn’t be trash.
I chose blue but it also comes in boring black too. The core case is made of a softer plastic (maybe TPU?). It has a raised lip that protects the screen a bit, which is nice. The inside has a soft feel. It’s not fabric but somehow feels like softer texture than the rest of the case. Much nicer than rigid plastic on other cases that won’t be named.
Putting the iPad Pro 11” inside the core case, I immediately noticed a very snug fit.
The core case does add some weight but not enough to complain about. Now the core or main case magnetically attaches to the the folio. The magnets are strong! Once attached, weight becomes MUCH more noticeable. Similar to my Zugu case with 2018 12.9” iPad Pro. That’s definitely something to complain about for some of you. The saving grace about this beefcake folio is two fold (no pun intended).
1) The Folio can be left behind and your iPad would still be protected by the main case. You can use the folio as a home base of sorts and dock it at your desk / bedside when needed. Put a screen protector on that sucker and you’re still better off than Apples own folio (protection wise).
You see those six grooves? The bottom flap uses magnets that fit inside and don't budge unless you force it to.
Once you get to the 4th 5th and 6th groove, the case becomes a bit wobbly which would be an other unfortunate CON if the second flap on top didn't exist!
Second flap? Brilliant bit of engineering. Once you deploy that, it's back to being completely sturdy. No wobbles!
Tested the case in bed and unsurprisingly it worked perfectly.
I was at the Apple Store testing out their folio on my lap and even now that it's redesigned to be more stable, it still isn't sturdy enough to inspire confidence on my lap (in the upright position) let alone laying down. I digress but the ESR case is ideal in this regard.
Detach the main case from the folio and move it up a few inches until it magnetically snaps back in again. That's right, your ipad pro's case lifts, bro!
Looking at ESR's info, (or reading that silly comment I just typed) I wouldn't blame you for passing this feature off as gimmicky. It's totally not though and actually really useful. Raising the iPad those few inches gives a better viewing angle on a desk, counter etc.. The best part is it's still sturdy to the point that I'm comfortable using it this way in bed.
And it's way more comfortable this way because my head doesn't have to be propped up with my neck bent as much!
Now that I'm done gushing about the folio, there are a couple more things worth mentioning.
The sides of the folio can feel a bit sharp while handling. Not sure if it’s a good idea to file them down myself but it would be great if these edges were rounded off.
When you fold the flap from the folio closed to protect your iPad's screen, a magnet tells the ipad to go to sleep. Unfortunately, this magnet does not keep the flap closed for some reason. If you let gravity have its way and flip the case over, the cover will fling open. I think this is an oversight and something ESR should definitely fix.
So yea, I think that's all I have to say for now. Honestly, this launch has been a bit of a 💩 show with cases. Among the ones available, this ESR Shift series is the star of the show by a wide margin. Is it perfect? No. The folio part is really heavy, but I'll take that tradeoff for the sturdiness and features it has. Additionally this is hands down better than my old Zugu case which surprised me.
Thanks for watching, don't forget to like, sub... oh wait, that's not what we do here... 🤣
I was going to get a Zugu case for my Air 13” but stumbled across this one yesterday and ordered it. I like it for the Air for all the reasons you like it. I especially like that there’s the separate cover for the back so the iPad is protected when you take it out of the case and I like the way the case folds to the back and is so adjustable.
A really great and thorough review. I also had an ESR Shift ready to go on launch day.
Unfortunately, this magnet does not keep the flap closed for some reason. If you let gravity have it's way and flip the case over, the cover will fling open. I think this is an oversight and something ESR should definitely fix.
This (and the overall bulkiness) are the reasons I am returning mine. The weak magnets mean the front cover also slides around when closed. I fear this may risk a scratched screen from a small piece of grit picked up by the cover. When holding the iPad closed you can feel the cover moving in your hand which just seem wrong.
Raising the iPad those few inches gives a better viewing angle on a desk, counter etc.. The best part is it's still sturdy to the point that I'm comfortable using it this way in bed.
I was surprised how nice this mode was for desk viewing. Whilst it is sturdy in that it won't fall over, it is quite wobbly when touched, so not so good for interactive use.
I also have this case for my 13 M4 and agree with you. I have several ESR products, their phone, Apple Watch, and AirPods combo charger is about the best of the breed. The case however, while very well made, is quite heavy, and picking it up in my hands the sharp edges are uncomfortable. The option to vertically position the ipad as well as being able to raise the device up to a higher viewing angle are just not that important to me. Had Zugu had a case available I would have immediately ordered it as I’ve had almost every one of their previous cases and consider them the best of the best. However it may not be until June or later before they have one as they wait until they actually have the device to design the case. ESR and a few others just go by the posted dimensions rather than wait for the device. This can sometimes lead to issues but the ESR case I have seems to have everything perfectly aligned.
I have until June to return the ESR so I’m still making a decision on this. But with my Zugu cases it was very comfortable, convenient, and relatively light to pick up and carry around. The ESR just doesn’t feel that good in hand.
That’s a good point about the sharpish edges. They’re from the folio & the way it’s glued together. Not on the main case thankfully. Maybe they can be filed down? An other thing ESR should look into fixing and CON I’ll add to my review.
I hope Zugu copies this raised resting option and the way the main case separates. (Are you reading this Zugu?) I would also like the main case to have rounded edges so it’s more comfortable to hold. Similar to what Mous does with their limitless iPhone case.
Lots of room for improvement but at least we’re starting from a reasonably high standard.  👍
I bought this on launch day  (same color too) and so far I got to say, I am impressed as you stated. Quality is great and sure it can be a bit heavy carrying it around but having the option to detach the case eliminate’s that problem right away. Definitely recommend to get it.
If Zugu decides to offer different versions of an ipad case I would agree with you. But one of the primary reasons I consider them to be the premier case maker is the ipad cases have always been the nicest looking, lightest, smoothest feeling while in the hand; also it’s been one of the most protective available. I wouldn’t want a heavier more complicated version that just duplicates what ESR has done. So I would stick with their primary, standard case.
I just got an email from them saying they would begin pre-orders with a week or two, which pushes me a little more towards returning the ESR.
I always get Zugu cases - have since they started.  But for the Air 13, I went with this.  It's a great, well built case.  But it is HEAVY.  Now, I'm going from a 11" M1 Pro to the Air 13, but even when you don't have the tablet in the case, the case is probably the heaviest I've ever seen without a keyboard.
Better this one or the hybrid case? i also saw the Zugu but i understand the flip part is not detachable
i also saw the Zugu but i understand the flip part is not detachable
With any of those cases that can be detached you’ll have to be comfortable with the additional weight. Zugu cases do not feature detachable elements which contributes to how light they are compared to the others. But you get ultimate protection with no need of a screen protector and multi-angle adjustability. I bought the ESR shift case for the 13 M4 and while it’s very well made, fits perfectly, it is very heavy with sharp edges. And yes you can detach the case from the stand but I would never carry it that way and would rarely if ever use it apart from the stand.
You just have to keep in mind how you use or plan to use the ipad and select the one that meets those uses. The Zugu ones meet all my needs when I don’t need a keyboard.
Thank you! Very useful feedback… do you know what is the effective difference in weight between ESR Shift and Zogu? Just to check if descriptions are accurate
I have the Zugu case for the last iPad Pro. They have not yet released one for 13 M4. But the one I have is quite light, I don’t know a specific weight but compared to any other case that is also a stand it is very light. The ESR shift weighs about as much or more than the iPad itself. Some people have complained about how much Apple’s Magic Keyboard for the ipad weighs. The ESR weighs at least that much but with no keyboard. I don’t want to knock ESR as I use several of their devices which are all high quality. But that case is just very heavy. However if someone needs the ability to put an iPad in a vertical position, something I almost never do with these big iPad Pros, or to put it in a higher, raised horizontal position, which again I don’t need as I use a lap desk that can be raised to multiple heights or I can just put a pillow under the ipad, then the ESR will meet those needs and the weight may be acceptable to those individuals.
I frequently take mine to a coffee shop and having the Zugu case that is fully protected on all sides, very light, with multiple angle positions is very convenient. Taking the ESR with my iPad would be like carrying two, maybe two and half, iPads with you wherever you go. You could detach the case from the stand to carry out with you but then you have an exposed screen that can only be laid flat. I see all these threads talking about screen protectors, something I’ve never used, and with both the ESR case stand and Zugu’s no such protector is needed. In the end I am returning the ESR as I don’t really need those additional features. Had it been significantly lighter, and more comfortable when carrying it in your hand, it has very sharp edges, I would have kept it. But it’s possible that having those additional features necessitates that additional weight and for those who really would make use of those features the weight may be acceptable.
Thanks! wondering when Zugu will release the cases for the new iPad pros…
Pre-orders begin in a week or two. Got an email from them yesterday.
I got my shift case today for my 13 inch M4.  I like everything but the weight, so I leaning toward keeping it, but we will see how I feel after a couple weeks.
The thing feels very sturdy on the lap and I was able to put an older Apple Keyboard (not the version with a Trackpad) in front of it and type away ( I have long legs, so that helps).  Wasn’t expecting to be able to do that.  It will also allow portrait mode on the case, which I prefer for magazines and books.  I don’t know how often I would have it in hand out of the outer case, but happy to have the option without sacrificing some protection.
I like the feature that raises it up, too.  Very nice when working with a Bluetooth keyboard at a table or just watching Youtube or other media in the kitchen or out on the deck.  I know they make stands that do this, but this will be available everywhere I take the iPad.
I wonder what it actually weighs?  I don’t think they actually say, they only have the weight of the inner cover.  I may put it on a scale this weekend.   I am curious to know just how much weight I am dealing with.  It isn‘t like I am holding in hand when in use ( would pull from the standing case for that), but it is something I would feel in a backpack.  I haven’t noticed any sharpness in the cover, so we be on the lookout for that. I also noticed the cover isn’t that secure.  I wonder if Apple changed something?  I have the issue with a different case I am returning and that one doesn’t even turn on and off the iPad. Glad this one does. ( the Zugu case won’t be shipped until the end of July… probably wouldn’t receive it until August, so that’s a long time to wait for a case).
( the Zugu case won’t be shipped until the end of July… probably wouldn’t receive it until August, so that’s a long time to wait for a case).
That was why I also ordered the ESR Shift. But it was so heavy and uncomfortable when carrying it in my hand that I returned it. The other features, vertical orientation, higher position, aren’t that appealing to me but would have been nice if the thing didn’t weigh as much as a tank. I think the case alone weighed more than the ipad and about as much as the ipad plus Magic Keyboard. But that’s really just a quibble as, if you’re regularly using it, you’ll forget about the weight. But I have the Zugu case for my previous M2 iPP, and that thing is so sleek and smooth, and light, that it made the ESR seem archaic in comparison. I’m not knocking ESR as I use several of their other products which are outstanding but this one just didn’t quite win me over. I also ordered and have the M4 Magic Keyboard but I would not often take the combo out and about with me, I would put the iPP in another, Zugu, case; or, if the ESR hadn’t felt like carrying a dumbbell, it would have been that one.
Being a normally conflicted individual I occasionally consider reordering the ESR, as waiting for the Zugu is a little daunting to me.
I was surprised by the weight, as well.  I will try it for a week or so and then decide if it will work for me.  I mainly use this at home and the weight isn't hurting anything when I balance it on my lap or chest when laying in bed.  I would definitely appreciate something lighter, but I need a case before August, so I suspect I will stick with it despite that issue.
I have no interest in the Magic Keyboard.  Using it naked is not my thing.  I dont like how it feels in hand, I don't like the lack of protection, and I don't want to have to shuffle it in and out of another case.  If I return this one, I may just get a Logitech Combo Keyboard like I had on my M1.  It has a keyboard and protection, but I really don't need the keyboard, but I know the cover (without the removable keyboard) has to weigh less than the ESR.  I am leaning toward keeping this one at the moment, though.
am leaning toward keeping this one at the moment, though.
I think, apart from Zugu, that’s the best available without a keyboard even if heavy. And available now not July or August.
I weighed this with the case and iPad and it comes to ~1336g (used a small kitchen scale, so probably not the exact number).  If what I have read about the Magic Keyboard  (1246g) is true, this weighs more.
My scale shows the iPad 582g, the inner case 187g, and the outer case at 587g.  I suspect all of the magnets are weighing it down.  The upside is that the build keeps it steadier on uneven surfaces, like my lap.  It's a trade off.
I decided to keep it.  Around the house, the weight isn't bugging me and if I hand hold it, I have that inner case.  Actually, I am pretty happy with its multitude of options and flexibility.
Same, I actually use the higher position all the time.
I got a follow up from ESR customer support after the ESR Shift failed to live up to my expectations.
They sent me a Rebound Hybrid 360 to improve my experience. I am quite impressed with the case, whilst it doesn't have the high-level viewing position of the Shift, it does offer a similar number of landscape and portrait viewing angles. The magnetic clasp ensures that the front cover remains securely closed, which addresses the main problem I had with the Shift. It has a similar inner case which attaches to the folio magnetically, the difference being this one has a clear back. It weighs less than the Shift and feels much nicer in hand.
The Rebound Hybrid is still rather chunky compared to the Apple Smart Folio, but the case provides full body protection which makes it a good option for use outside of the home.
I can understand the issue with the cover, but I am not worried about scratches.  I have some old iPads that have been thrown in bags without any cover and none of them have any scratches on the screen.  I have my phone in my pocket with keys and without a cover and it has never caused an issue, so a slight move of the cover doesn't worry me.  Though, nowadays, my main use is at home, so I am not being very rough on it.  It spends most of my workdays on a stand with the cover folded back behind it.
I do have a clear screen protector that makes it easier to write/draw on with the pencil that I will throw on it if I am going on a trip or something.   That can just be pulled off when I get where I am going if I want.  A lot of our trips are to the beach, so it makes sense just to leave the cover on it with sand being all over the place.
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.