for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
I'm between the new M2 Air, M1 Air at discount or the new M3 11 Pro. I really don't need the best overall tablet, but I feel the 120Hz is important for a fluid experience, and will be important to have in 3/5 years.
M4 iPad Pro because of the screen. The whole device is basically just a screen and thus the most important piece of the puzzle.
The OLED screen really is freaking amazing and I don‘t see any reason to upgrade this device for many, many years. Buying any other iPad right now would give me buyers remorse shortly after because I would know the screen could be better. I am a huge display nerd though and your mileage may vary.
M4 because OLED, Face ID, quad speakers (although sound isn’t as good as on previous models), and landscape camera.
M4 IPP 13”.  Have the 2018 12.9 too currently, this is definitely lighter and the BMK is really good, makes a big difference.
Cause I had a 2018 IPP 64 GB and I think if I had 6 GB ram instead of 4 GB, it would have lasted me another 2-3 years at least. Hoping to extend the life of this one.
Bought standard glass cause I have very oily fingerprints and wiping them off the nano-texture glass was way more difficult (but I didn’t use the special cloth to test that). I want to be able to wipe away fingerprints easier. Also, while I was impressed with the clarity of nano-texture, I didn’t like the reduction in dark blacks / less contrast. The screen looks too stunning to make it matte unless you really really need it for some reason (eg lots of bright environments).
I didn’t want to wait till June 10 to hear about iPad is improvements and I wanted to be sure I had an iPad that could take advantage of whatever is introduced, no matter how unlikely.
My last iPad was space grey with black MKB, so wanted this one to look more different.  Also I hear the white holds up against smudges / fingerprints better so why not!
I didn’t like the look of mix and match colours of iPad / keyboard.
Stuck with 13” cause when I had both sizes for a year, I found myself using the 13” over the 9.7” iPad way more often and fell in love with a big screen (I use the iPad with the keyboard or in a case with stand for on my lap mostly - I prefer kindles for reading books in my hand, and prefer my phone for browsing the internet casually, holding that in my hands).
(I’ll admit some reasons are better quality than others!)
For Face ID and OLED, and this cycle coincides with my usual upgrade and I wanted cellular on my workhorse iPad.
11” iPad Pro, mostly for the display and the landscape orientation of the camera.  I’m passing my 2022 11” down to my sister, who will pass her 2020 11” to her son.  The OLED screen is very crisp (actually takes some getting used to).  I might have gone for the nano but not at that premium.
i use my iPad all the time, writing and transferring Word files and updates to/from my desktop MacBook Pro (usually when I’m downstairs - my desktop is upstairs).  I print wirelessly to my upstairs printer.  The setup is seamless.
M2 Air 11". Pro looks nice and I will definitely check it out soon when I go to buy a couple of accessories, but I don't use my iPad a ton--my Mac is my heavy lifter. So I just don't feel the extra $400 is worth it to me. The Air replaces my 2017 10.5" Pro and so far I'm quite happy. The screen looks great to me, scrolling does not but I don't really care too much about that.
It isn't mentioned a lot, but the landscape speaker orientation, new to the 2024 Airs, seems like a pretty big improvement giving you a decent stereo image when watching TV, etc. I also would not get 64 GB storage, and the old 64/256 GB storage tiers always seemed pretty dumb to me. 128 is my sweet spot. My old Pro is retiring at about 105 GB storage used.
11 Pro, Black 512gb, Magic Keyboard and Pencil Pro. I travel a bit and my mini was a little small for "consumption" and the jelly scrolling drove me nuts
I have a MBA 15" and a 14" MBP so when I need a bigger screen, I'm good
I previously had an iPad Air 5 and iPad Mini 6. Upgrade for me was based off needing more storage, OLED, Face ID, ProMotion. I plan on keeping this iPad until it retires itself or is unsupported. I do some work if need be in the moment, use it as a consumption device, gaming, and more. This is my travel device as I don’t like to travel with my laptop. With the upgrade to this new iPad I am confident I won’t need to replace this for many years to come.
I ended up selling both my iPads to family friends and was able to recoup a good part of the cost for the new one.
This is my primary computer. I need it to last a long time, and be nice to use the entire time. I learned from my 2020 iPP that single-digit memory is not enough, so I wanted 16GB that came with the higher storage. The extra performance core is nice to have too I guess.
11" M4 iPP to replace my aging 10.5" iPP. (Magic Keyboard and Smart Folio as well.)
Thinking about the 13" M4 iPP to replace my 13" MBP.
13” M4 Pro in Space Black. I wanted a new, bigger screen iPad (just sold my 11” gen 3 iPP) and as the new M4 is thinner and lighter too it was the obvious choice as I definitely also wanted a better screen and face i.d. along with the Pro Motion.
Now I have had the iPad a few days I know I made the correct choice 😇
I just wish they had released a new updated iPad Mini too as that would also be a definite buy for me.
11” M4 Pro 1TB silver. I had a 12.9” M2 Pro but wanted the smaller size.
11" M4 Pro 256GB cellular. The size is big enough for me and easier to handle (I don't use a keyboard case). It's perfect for travel or just sitting on the patio. I have a 16" MacBook Pro for anything serious. I don't like to use public WiFi and am more comfortable having cellular on the iPad.
iPad 10.9” solely because of the price drop. I got it for a bit cheaper since Amazon had a small discount on it. I wanted an entry-level iPad to do basic stuff, i.e. browsing, watching videos, etc. Can’t justify spending near $1000 for an iPad Pro, as much as I’d love the display, especially due to the limitations of iPadOS. At that price, I might as well buy a MacBook Air. But that’s just me, I’m jealous of all of you with your new iPad Pros lol.
I originally went to the Apple store to get the 13 M4 256GB and was fine with it until I saw the 512GB at Microcenter. I couldn't believe the price, it was only $50 more than the 256GB version. Yes, the price was $1349 at Microcenter.
Apple iPad Pro 13" MVX43LL/A (Mid 2024) - Space Black; 13" Ultra Retina XDR Display; Apple M4 9-Core CPU; 512GB - Micro Center
Get it now! The all-new iPad Pro packs astonishing power into an unbelievably thin, light, and portable design. Push the limits of whats possible on iPad with a superportable 13-inch model that is the thinnest product Apple has ever created.
I came from an Air 5 (I actually downgraded to the Air from a pro last year when I made some changes to my setup), and got an 11” pro (256 model because I’m coming from a 64 gb that wasn’t full) cellular with a MK (and will get pencil next time I’m in the Apple store).
I really wanted the landscape camera, so I knew I would upgrade. I ultimately decided to go pro because of the better specs and Face ID (which I never thought I’d miss, but I definitely did).
1TB M4 11” with 16GB RAM, and 10 Cores. 1TB I need the Space for Video and Photo Editing
and this new M4 really feels Much snappier and Faster. Flawless Samsung display no Color or Grainy issues that have been rumored.
No Magic Keyboard, I owned the old Magic Keyboard and I NEVER used it.
I bought the M4 iPad Pro 512GB with the Magic Keyboard. I had been using the iPad Pro 12.9 before. I upgraded because the OLED is very nice.
Still await on a 14’ inch or bigger for me - bought the wife a M2 Air
Coming from a 2018 12.9" iPP - while that device was still holding up well, the screen was really lacking compared to my M3 MBP + XDR combo. Bought the 13 inch M4 base model. The 1000 nits for SDR is absolutely incredible, viewing the new screen at night is laughable, to the point where I know already that when OLED MBPs/desktop monitors come out I'm going to be very, very tempted...
I went to  MicroCenter this morning to look at the new Airs and Pros. I’ve been wanting an M1/M2 powered iPad to tryout DaVinci Resolve on the go. I ended up buying an Open Box return of an M1 11” 256GB Air. They let me examine it, iPad and accessories were all still sealed in paper wrapping, never activated and still eligible for AppleCare+. $536 + tax. They had the new M2 128GB for $539, I ended up opting for more storage.
I got top of the line 2 TB Nano .. for video editing and because I don’t upgrade much. I came from a version one IPad Pro.  9 years old lol.  It’s freaking great ! I can run DaVinci resolve at 4k timeline no problem and have 1.8 TB of files loaded at the moment just to see if I could do it
I have a regular screen as well as the Nano. I ordered the Nano and after reading all the back and forth I picked up the same model with regular glass on launch day.  Comparing them but I think the Nano will win out.  The regular is nice but if you really look the Nano is equally good. Just not as “wet”.  I’m going to give it a few days before I return the regular glass though
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.