for $50/year with no ads, ability to filter front page stories, and private forums.
12.9-inch iPad Pro users: Is a keyboard attachment a must-have?
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
Is a keyboard attachment a must-have accessory for your 12.9-inch iPad Pro
I am on my second 12.9-inch iPad Pro, which is a third generation.  My first 12.9-inch iPad Pro was the first generation.  Pending whatever happens with the rumored 12.9-inch iPad Air, I may very well buy a refurbished fifth generation (M1/2021) model.  In all of those cases, a keyboard was an automatic must.  In fact, once it became apparent that Apple's Repair Extension Program for the keyboard smart cover for the first and second generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro entailed replacing failed units with units that would inevitably fail in the same way, I sold my first generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro in favor of the third generation model.  I didn't realize it until recently, but the keyboard, for me, is not only a must-have accessory for it; but also a deal-breaker too.  Am I the only one who feels this way?  Are you buying your 12.9-inch iPad Pro and not using it with a keyboard?  If not, what do you do with yours?  I ask (and post this) out of legitimate curiosity.
I’m increasingly using my iPad Pro more as a tablet less as a laptop, leaving that function to my MacBook Pro.
IMO 12.9 is the one size that doesn’t require an external keyboard (of which I have two) to be generally useable thanks to its software keys being “full-size“ and all visible without having to switch input modes. Apple Store employees who type really fast on the screen say it takes about 2 months of regular practice to become just as comfortable as typing on a physical keyboard. I’m typing this reply on the virtual keyboard having gotten to a decent level of proficiency (hint: the word suggestion bar REALLY helps).
I imagine most people don’t have that kind of patience and/or really don’t like sacrificing 1/2 of the screen real estate to typing, so an external keyboard is a necessity for them. But everyone is so focused on the very expensive and very heavy Magic Keyboard that they overlook the lighter, slimmer Smart Keyboard Folio. It retains the tablet aesthetic while being significantly cheaper.
I never needed a keyboard, but I have a Magic Keyboard because it serves like a dock, thanks the the MK's side charge port. Then you just dock it to charge, and don't have to keep plugging in the USB port on the iPad itself.
Instead, my desk setups at home and at work each have a multi-device Logitech keyboard and trackball that I can switch on the fly between PC and iPad.
On the couch, bed, etc., I just use the onscreen keyboard when I need to type.
Once I got the MKB for my M1 12.9 I have kept it on for the majority of my usage.
Not necessary but enhances the usability of it. Magic Keyboard is a good keyboard, but it's the docking part that really sells it for me.
Magic Keyboard for the iPad Pro 12.9 has many advantages. While it’s not a necessity it has its uses
Magic Keyboard is detachable from the iPad Pro 12.9 , has a built in USB-c connection
Provides reasonably good protection for your iPad Pro
Depends what you're doing with it. If you bought it as a drawing tablet, handwriting journal, ebook reader, etc. A keyboard isn't really necessary. If you use it for longer writing, spreadsheets, or different types of content creation, it might be recommended, but not mandatory.
When I had my 12.9" iPP, I was using it as my main and only computer. I wouldn't have bothered without a keyboard.
Pencil, touch= iPad Pro. However, I like writing on software keyboards so I would be glad to tether two iPads together and use one as an input device.
If I would go iPad only, I would use external keyboard and trackpad and make a large screen, the central screen.
Unless its down on the table propped at an angle and in landscape mode its very difficult to realistically use the onscreen keyboard for much. At that point you may as well use a small portable BT keyboard, the Logitech k something or other is great.  Magic keyboard is very good as other posters have mentioned but its very pricy.
Bought the keyboard, used it for a while, loved it, and after 3 months… just didn’t use it anymore. It is too heavy for me.
i use Mine with just a normal case as I use mine on my lap mainly and on the table to watch media content
Pro is the price of a MacBook but I bought the iPad because it had the features I cared more about (display, speakers, touch screen, portable). That said there are some tasks like typing out documents or replying to email where a keyboard is better and sometimes the mouse is much easier than my finger. I don’t think a keyboard accessory is necessary but it helped clear the final hurdle of replacing a mac with an iPad for me.
I’m a weirdo that prefers to type on glass.. mainly for two reasons.  Less bulk and I actually like the feel. The only reason I would ever consider getting a keyboard is for the angle. When typing on the screen only, it can get reflective with overhead lights or the sun outdoors. This is for on-the-go scenarios.
At home, I have a Bluetooth keyboard that I pair it with so i have more screen real estate. The entire “ethos” of the iPad is to make it as light and portable as possible.
I like this case for the steeper angle typing position (compared to the rather flat Apple Smart Folio), which should help with the reflections.
Also, it lets you use the iPad in vertical orientation (and has a bonus pencil flap).
PITAKA iPad Pro 12.9 Case, Compatible with iPad Air 13 Inch (M2) & iPad Pro 12.9 (3-6th Gen) 2022/2021/2020/2018, Lightweight Portrait/Landscape Magnetic Case with 4 Standing Angles - Black
I voted yes because for ME, it is super-desirable.  Yes, it can be used without a magic keyboard, and I do occasionally.  But I much prefer typing on it and viewing the screen when it’s mounted on one.  So for me it is ”essential” in the case that I won’t own an iPad without one.
Will it be essential for someone who doesn’t type much on it?  Then no, it isn’t essential to the basic operation of the device.
I do not like the 12.9" ipad as a regular tablet. It's too big for me.  Keyboard is a must.
I would say keyboard for iPad is pretty much a must-have. But don't get a keyboard attachment,  just get a separate Bluetooth keyboard.
Separate Bluetooth keyboard puts no wear because you're not having to detach and reattaching every time.
) in the rare case I want to type something longer on the iPad. I also use a magnetic iPad stand like
, which gives more height and is more flexible than the Magic Keyboard as a stand. You don't need to get the $350 Apple keyboard unless you really, really care about the trackpad and the specific kind of portablitity it provides.
As an Amazon Associate, MacRumors earns a commission from qualifying purchases made through links in this post.
Personally if I were to get another large iPad I'd get a keyboard case for it.  I know what you mean about the early generation Pro keyboards, my last one failed and my gen 2 iPP 12.9 is now without a keyboard case.
I'm not a fan of the price and weight of the magic keyboard but I do think that its a very nice setup.
The material on the MKB wears absurdly fast and when you compare it to the Apple Magic Bluetooth keyboard for price, there is no way the MKB is worth 4X the price. I have the Combo Touch and the Apple Magic Bluetooth keyboard and it’s far more versatile, lighter and still cheaper than what the MKB would have costed me.
I said that detaching/attaching the MKB does not cause wear, nothing about its durability in use - though after 15 months on my 12.9, mine still looks great. But it is overpriced.
For me it does add to the versatility of the iPad as it’s the only Apple device that has input via touch, pencil and keyboard.
I like the Magic Keyboard, but what also works really well is the keyboard of my M1 iMac when I work with universal control on. The iMac is a great pairing for the iPad Pro in terms of proefessional (office ) work.
It’s a bit unwieldy but I occasionally read on it, which is in portrait mode (preferably). It also does duty as a design tool and then it sits in a dedicated housing for drawing. But yes, for me and in most use cases, I use it in the keyboard case.
This sidebar will go away, and you'll see fewer ads.